# Module 10: Scaling Services

# Lab: Load Balancing Azure Web Apps

1. Wherever a path to a file starts at *[Repository Root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides. 
 For example, you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the path: *[Repository Root]***\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01** to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01**.
2. Wherever **{YourInitials}** appears, replace it with your actual initials. For example, the initials for **John Doe** will be **jd**.

### Preparation Steps

1. Open Windows PowerShell as Administrator.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. To ensure TLS1.2 is used, enter the following command:
   ```pwsh
   [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
   ```
4. Run the following command: 
   ```pwsh
   Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1
   ```
   >**Note**: If prompted install for NuGet provider type **Y** and then press **Enter**.
   >**Note**: If prompted for **Untrusted repository** press **A** and then press **Enter**. 
5. To change the directory to the **setup** folder, run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod10\Labfiles\Lab1\Setup
   ```
6. Run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   .\createAzureServices.ps1
   ```
   > **Note**: If prompted for Security warning type **R** and then press **Enter**.
7. You will be asked to provide a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
   1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
   2. In the search box on the top bar, type **Subscriptions** and in the results, click **Subscriptions** listed under **Services**.
   3. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it in the PowerShell window. 
8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.
9. Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window.

### Exercise 1: Prepare the Application for Load Balancing

#### Task 1: Add code to print out the server name

1. Open the command prompt.
2. To change the directory to the starter project, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod10\Labfiles\Lab1\Starter
   ```
3. To open the project in Microsoft Visual Studio Code, run the following command:
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
4. Right-click on the **Explorer pane** on the left, select **New Folder**, and then name it **Middleware**.
5. Right-click the **Middleware** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **MachineNameMiddleware.cs**.
6. To the file, add the following **using** statements:
   ```cs
   using System;
   using System.Collections.Generic;
   using System.Linq;
   using System.Net;
   using System.Threading.Tasks;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http;
   using Newtonsoft.Json;
   ```
7. To add namespace, enter the following code:

   ```cs
   namespace BlueYonder.Flights.Service.Middleware
   {

   }
   ```

8. To add a class declaration, enter the following code in the namespace braces:

   ```cs
   public class MachineNameMiddleware
   {

   }
   ```

9. To add a constructor, inside the class braces, enter the following code:

   ```cs
   private readonly RequestDelegate _next;

   public MachineNameMiddleware(RequestDelegate next)
   {
      _next = next;
   }
   ```

10. To add the **Invoke** method that adds the **X-BlueYonder-Server** header with **MachineName** as value, enter the following code:

   ```cs
   public async Task Invoke(HttpContext httpContext)
   {
      httpContext.Response.Headers.Add("X-BlueYonder-Server", Environment.MachineName);

      await _next(httpContext);
   }
   ```

11. To add an extension method for **IApplicationBuilder**, outside the class braces but inside the namespace braces, enter the following code:
   ```cs
   public static class MachineNameMiddlewareExtensions
   {
      public static IApplicationBuilder UseMachineNameMiddleware(this IApplicationBuilder builder)
      {
         return builder.UseMiddleware<MachineNameMiddleware>();
      }
   }
   ```
12. On the **Explorer pane** on the left, locate the **Startup** file, and then click the file.
13. To the **Startup** file, add the following **using** statement:
   ```cs
   using BlueYonder.Flights.Service.Middleware;
   ```
13. To use **Exception Handling Middleware**, locate the **Configure** method, and then enter the following code above the **app.UseHttpsRedirection();** line:
   ```cs
   app.UseMachineNameMiddleware();
   ```
14. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Deploy the application to an Azure web app

1. Switch to the command prompt.
2. To publish in the service, run the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Azure /p:Configuration=Release
   ```
3. Open the Azure portal.
4. To display all the app services, in the portal menu, click **App Services**.
5. Click the **blueyondermod10lab1***{YourInitials}* service.
6. In the left pane, in the **Settings** section, click **Scale up (App Service plan)**.
7. Click the **Dev/Test** tab.
8. In the **Recommended pricing tiers** box, select **B1**, and then click **Apply**.
9. Wait until all the changes are saved.

#### Task 3: Configure the web app for multiple instances

1. In the **Settings** section, click **Scale out (App Service plan)**.
2. Click the **Configure** tab.
3. To increase the instances, drag the **Instance count** to a value of **2**.
4. In the top bar, Click **Save**.
5. Wait until all the changes are saved.

### Exercise 2: Test the Load Balancing with Instance Affinity

#### Task 1: Browse the website multiple times

1. Open Microsoft Edge.
2. Browse to the following URL:
   ```url
   https://blueyondermod10lab1{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
   ```
3. Verify that the response has a list of destinations similar to the following:
   ```json
   [
     { "id": 1, "cityName": "Seattle", "airport": "Sea-Tac" },
     { "id": 2, "cityName": "New-york", "airport": "JFK" },
     { "id": 3, "cityName": "Amsterdam", "airport": "Schiphol" },
     { "id": 4, "cityName": "London", "airport": "Heathrow" },
     { "id": 5, "cityName": "Paris", "airport": "Charles De Gaulle" }
   ]
   ```

#### Task 2: Verify you reached the same server each time

1. In Microsoft Edge, press **F12** to open the Developer Tools.
2. In **Developer Tools**, click **Network**.
3. Browse to the following URL (or refresh the page):
   ```url
   https://blueyondermod10lab1{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
   ```
4. Verify that the response has a list of destinations similar to the following:
   ```json
   [
   { "id": 1, "cityName": "Seattle", "airport": "Sea-Tac" },
   { "id": 2, "cityName": "New-york", "airport": "JFK" },
   { "id": 3, "cityName": "Amsterdam", "airport": "Schiphol" },
   { "id": 4, "cityName": "London", "airport": "Heathrow" },
   { "id": 5, "cityName": "Paris", "airport": "Charles De Gaulle" }
   ]
   ```
5. In the **Network** tab, locate the the following URL:
   ```url
   https://blueyondermod10lab1{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
   ```
6. In the **Response Headers** section, locate the **X-BlueYonder-Server**, and then verify that the **Status** is **200**.
7. Refresh the page a few times.
   > **Note**: You should always get the same **machine name** value in **X-BlueYonder-Server** header.

### Exercise 3: Test the Load Balancing Without Affinity

#### Task 1: Update the application to not use affinity

1. Switch to the Azure portal.
2. To display all the app services, in the left menu, click **App Services**.
3. If required, select the **blueyondermod10lab1***{YourInitials}* App Service.
4. In the left menu, locate the **Settings** blade.
5. Inside the **Settings** section, click **Configuration**.
6. In **General settings**, locate the **ARR Affinity** switch.
7. Switch the **ARR Affinity** to **Off**.
8. Click **Save** and then click **Continue**.
9. Wait until all the changes are saved.

#### Task 2: Retest and verify you reached more than one instance

1. Switch to Microsoft Edge.
2. Refresh the page twice.
3. Verify that the response has a list of destinations similar to the following:
   ```json
   [
     { "id": 1, "cityName": "Seattle", "airport": "Sea-Tac" },
     { "id": 2, "cityName": "New-york", "airport": "JFK" },
     { "id": 3, "cityName": "Amsterdam", "airport": "Schiphol" },
     { "id": 4, "cityName": "London", "airport": "Heathrow" },
     { "id": 5, "cityName": "Paris", "airport": "Charles De Gaulle" }
   ]
   ```
4. In the **Network** tab, view the **X-BlueYonder-Server**.
   > **Note**: In **X-BlueYonder-Server**, now there are two server instances, because of which you can get two different values for the machine name.
5. Close all open windows.

# Lab: Load Balancing with Azure Traffic Manager

### Exercise 1: Deploy an Azure Web App to Multiple Regions 

#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure web app to the West Europe region

1. Open Windows PowerShell as Administrator.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. If you are using the same environment you used in the previous lab, jump to **Step 5**.
4. Run the following command: 
   ```pwsh
   Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1
   ```
   > **Note**: If prompted for if you trust this Repository Type **A** and press **enter**.
5. To  change the directory to the **setup** folder, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [repository root]\AllFiles\Mod10\Labfiles\Lab2\Setup
   ```
6. To create a web app in the **West Europe** region, run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   .\createAzureServicesWestEurope.ps1
   ```
   > **Note**: If prompted for if you trust this Script, Type **R** and press **enter**.
7. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details, and then sign in.
8. You will be asked to provide a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
   1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
   2. In the search box on the top bar, type **Subscriptions** and in the results, click **Subscriptions** listed under **Services**.
   3. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it in the PowerShell window. 
   5. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then at the PowerShell command line, paste the copied value.
9.  In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.

#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure Web App to the West US region

1. To create a web app in the **West Us** region, run the following command:
   ```pwsh
    .\createAzureServicesWestUS.ps1
   ```
   >**Note**: If prompt for security warning type **R** and then press **Enter**.
2. Follow the same process you performed in Task 1 with regards credentials, subscription ID etc.

### Exercise 2: Create an Azure Traffic Manager Profile

#### Task 1: Create an Azure Traffic Manager profile in the Azure portal

1. Open the Azure portal.
2. In the portal menu, click **All resources**.
3. Click **+Add**, and then search for **Traffic Manager profile**.
4. In the **Traffic Manager profile** blade, click **Create**.
5. In the **Name** box, type **blueyondermod10lab2TM***{YourInitials}*.
   >**Note**: Replace *{YourInitials}* with your actual initials.
6. In **Routing method**, select the **Priority** routing method. 
7. In **Resource group**, select **Mod10Lab2t1-RG** from the list.
6. Click **Create**, and wait until the traffic manager is created successfully.

#### Task 2: Configure the profile to point to the two Azure web apps

1. In **All resources**, click **blueyondermod10lab2TM***{YourInitials}*.
2. In the **Settings** section, click **Endpoints**.
3. To create the primary endpoint, click **+ Add**.
4. In **Type**, select **Azure endpoint**.
5. In **Name**, type **myPrimaryEndpoint**.
6. In **Target resource type**, select **App Service**.
7. In **Target resource**, select **blueyondermod10lab2t1***{YourInitials}*.
8. In **Priority**, enter **1**.
9. Click **Ok**, and wait until the primary endpoint is created successfully.
10. To create a secondary end point, click **+ Add**.
11. In **Type**, select **Azure endpoint**.
12. In **Name**, type **mySecondaryEndpoint**.
13. In **Target resource type**, select **App Service**.
14. In **Target resource**, select **blueyondermod10lab2t2***{YourInitials}*.
15. In **Priority**, enter **2**.
16. Click **Ok**, and wait until the secondary end point is created successfully.

#### Task 3: Test the Azure Traffic Manager DNS resolver by checking which instance of the app was reached

1. Open Microsoft Edge.
2. Browse to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://blueyondermod10lab2TM{YourInitials}.trafficmanager.net/api/destinations
   ```
   > **Note**: All requests are routed to the primary endpoint that is set to Priority 1.
3. Open the command prompt.
4. To find our trafficmanager, run the following command:
   ```bash
   nslookup blueyondermod10lab2TM{YourInitials}.trafficmanager.net
   ```
5. In the result, locate the **Aliases:** property.
6. Verify that the **Aliases:** property is used in the **blueyondermod10lab2t1**{YourInitials} service.
   > **Note**: **blueyondermod10lab2t1** is the primary end point.
7. Switch to the Azure portal.
8. In **All resources**, click **blueyondermod10lab2TM**{YourInitials}.
9. In the **Settings** section, Click **Endpoints**.
10. Click **myPrimaryEndpoint**, and then change the **Status** to **Disabled**.
11. Click **Save**, and wait until all the changes are saved.
12. Browse to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://blueyondermod10lab2TM{YourInitials}.trafficmanager.net/api/destinations
   ```
   > **Note**: All requests are routed to the secondary endpoint that is set to Priority 2.
13. Switch to the command prompt.
14. To find our traffic manager, run the following command:
   ```bash
   nslookup blueyondermod10lab2TM{YourInitials}.trafficmanager.net
   ```
15. In the result, locate the **Aliases:** property.
16. Verify that the **Aliases:** property is used the **blueyondermod10lab2t2***{YourInitials}* service.
   > **Note**: **blueyondermod10lab2t2***{YourInitials}* is the secondary endpoint.
17. Close all open windows.
   
  ©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
