# Module 5: Hosting Services On-Premises and in Azure

# Lab: Host an ASP.NET Core service in a Windows Service

1. Wherever a path to a file starts at *[Repository Root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides. For example, you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the path: [Repository Root]**\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01 to C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01**.
2. Wherever *{YourInitials}* appears, replace it with your actual initials. For example, the initials for **John Doe** will be **jd**.


### Exercise 1: Creating an ASP.NET Core Application

#### Task 1: Create an ASP.NET Core application project

1. Open the Command Prompt window as an administrator.
   > **Note**: If User Account control dialog box appears click **Yes**.
2. To create a new **ASP.NET Core Web API** project, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet new webapi --name BlueYonder.Flights.Service --output [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights.Service
   ```
3. After the project is created, at the command prompt, change the directory by running the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights.Service
   ```
4. To open the project in **VSCode**, run the following command: 
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
5. Right-click the **Explorer** pane on the left, and select **New Folder**, and then name the new folder **Models**.   
6. Open File Explorer and in **[Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\**, navigate to the **Assets** folder.
7. Copy **Flight.cs** class and paste in to the **Models** folder you just created.
8. Go back to the **Assets** folder.
9. Copy **FlightsController.cs** class and paste in to the **Controllers** folder.
10. Switch back to **VSCode**.
11. In the **Explorer** blade, under the **BLUEYONDER.FLIGHTS.SERVICE** pane, click the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service.csproj** class.
12. Locate the last **\<PropertyGroup>** section.
13. Below the **TargetFramework** tag, add **\<RuntimeIdentifier>win7-x64\</RuntimeIdentifier>**.
   >**Note**: After this change, your **\<PropertyGroup>** section should look as follows:

   ```xml
      <PropertyGroup>
         <TargetFramework>netcoreapp2.1</TargetFramework>
         <RuntimeIdentifier>win7-x64</RuntimeIdentifier>
      </PropertyGroup>
   ```
14. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Install the Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.WindowsServices NuGet package

1. At the command prompt, if required, change the directory by running the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights.Service
   ```
2. To install the **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.WindowsServices** NuGet package that allows you to run the **ASP.NET Core** project as a Windows service, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.WindowsServices --version 2.1.1
   ```
#### Task 3: Modify the Main method to use Kestrel RunAsService hosting

1. Switch to **VSCode**.
   >**Note**: If you do not have it open, paste the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```bash
   code .
   ```
2. In the **Explorer** blade, under the **BLUEYONDER.FLIGHTS.SERVICE** pane, click on the **Program.cs** class.
3. Locate the **using** list at the top of the file and after **using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;**, press Enter.
4. Add the following **using** on a new line:
   ```cs   
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.WindowsServices;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore;
   ```
5. Change the **Main** method implementation as follows:
   ```cs
   CreateWebHostBuilder(args).Build().RunAsService();
   ```
6. Change the **BuildWebHost** implementation as follows:
   ```cs
   public static IWebHost BuildWebHost(string[] args) =>
       WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
          .UseStartup<Startup>();
 
   ```
7. Verify that after these two changes your **Program.cs** class looks as follows:
   ```cs
   using System;
   using System.Collections.Generic;
   using System.IO;
   using System.Linq;
   using System.Threading.Tasks;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting;
   using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;
   using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
   using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.WindowsServices;

   namespace BlueYonder.Hotels.Service
   {
      public class Program
      {
         public static void Main(string[] args)
         {
            CreateWebHostBuilder(args).Build().RunAsService();
         }

         public static IWebHost BuildWebHost(string[] args) =>
            WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
               .UseStartup<Startup>();
      }
   }
   ```
8. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.

### Exercise 2: Registering the Windows Service

#### Task 1: Register the Windows Service

1. Switch to the **Administrator: Command Prompt**.
2. If needed, at the command prompt, change the directory by running the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights.Service
   ```
3. To publish your **ASP .NET Core** project into a folder, run the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish --configuration Release --output [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights.Service\svc
   ```
4. To create your Windows service, run the following command:
   ```bash
   sc create FlightsService binPath="[Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter\BlueYonder.Flights.Service\svc\BlueYonder.Flights.Service.exe"
   ```

#### Task 2: Start the Windows Service and test it

1. To start your Windows service, run the following command:
   ```bash
   sc start FlightsService
   ```
2. To verify that the service is working, open a browser and navigate to **http://localhost:5000/api/flights**.
   > **Note**: If there is **certificate error issue**, click on **details** and the Click **Go on to the webpage**.
3. Verify whether you are getting the expected response just as the following:
   ```json
   [{"id":1,"origin":"Australia","destination":"China","flightNumber":"20487DD","departureTime":"2018-01-01T00:00:00"},{"id":2,"origin":"New-York","destination":"Paris","flightNumber":"20487D","departureTime":"2018-02-02T00:00:00"}]
   ```
  
4. To stop your Windows service, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   sc stop FlightsService
   ```
5. Refresh your browser (or open a new one and navigate to **http://localhost:5000/api/flights**).
6. Verify that you are not getting the expected response.
7. Close all your open windows.


# Lab: Host an ASP.NET Core Web API in an Azure Web App

### Exercise 1: Creating a Web App in the Azure Portal

#### Task 1: Run a setup script to upload a database to Azure

1. On the **Start** menu, search for and right-click **PowerShell**, and then select **Run as Administrator**.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. To ensure TLS1.2 is used, run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
   ```
4. Run the **Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1** command.
   >**Note**: If prompted install for NuGet provider type **Y** and then press **Enter**.
   >**Note**: If prompted for **Untrusted repository** press **A** and then press **Enter**. 
5. Change the directory in PowerShell by running the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   cd "[Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise2\Host In Azure\Setup"
   ```
6. Run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   .\createAzureSQL.ps1
   ```
7. You will be asked to provide a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
   1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
   2. In the search box on the top bar, type **Subscriptions** and in the results, click **Subscriptions** listed under **Services**.
   3. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it in the PowerShell window. 
   4. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details, and then sign in.
   5. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, enter your initials when prompted.   
8. Wait until the deployment is complete before proceeding to the next step. You should see:
   ```bash
   Database has initialized successfully
   ```

#### Task 2: Create a free website

1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If you are prompted to, sign in by using your Azure account credentials.
2. In the **Portal Menu**, click **App Services**. 
3. To create a new App Service, in the top menu, click **+Add**.
4. Inside the **Web** blade, from the **Web Apps** section, select **Web App**, and then click **Create**.
5. In the **Resource Group** list, select **BlueYonder.Lab.05**.
6. In the **Name** box, enter the following unique name:
    ```
    blueyonder-flights-{Your Initials}.
    ```
   >**Note**: Replace **{Your Initials}** with your actual initials and copy the **App name** value to any code editor.
   
7. Ensure **Publish** is set to **Code**
8. In the **Runtime stack** list, select **.NET Core 2.1 (LTS)**.
9. In the **Region** list, select a region you can provision to.
10. Click **Create new** for the **App Service Plan**.
11. In the **Name** box, type **MyFlightAppService**.
12.  Click **Change size** for the **Sku and size** box.
13. On the **Spec Picker**, click **Dev / Test**, select **F1**, and then click **Apply**.
14. Click **Review and Create**.
15. To create your new web app, click **Create**. 
16. Wait for the deployment to be completed and then click **Go to resource**.

#### Task 3: Configure an environment variable and the database connection string

1. If needed, click the new web app **blueyonder-flights-{Your Initials}**.
2. In the **SETTINGS** section, click **Configuration**.
3. Click **+ New application setting**.
4. Add a new setting with the key named **BLUEYONDER_TENANT** and the value as **Testing**. 
	>**Note**: This setting will be used later to test HTTP requests.
5. Locate the **Connection strings** section.
6. Click **+ New connection string**.
7. Add a new setting with the **Name** set to **dbConnectionString** and the following for the **value**:
	```
	Server=tcp:blueyonder05-{Your Initials}.database.windows.net,1433;Initial Catalog=BlueYonder.Flights.Lab05;Persist Security Info=False;User ID=BlueYonderAdmin;Password=Pa$$w0rd;MultipleActiveResultSets=False;Encrypt=True;TrustServerCertificate=False;Connection Timeout=30;
	```
	>**Note**: Replace **{Your Initials}** with your actual initials.
8. Ensure the type is set to "SQL Server"
9. Click **OK**.
10. In the top menu, click **Save** and then click **Continue**.

#### Task 4: Configure IIS logs	

1. In the **Deployment** section of your web app, click **Deployment Center**, scroll down and select **FTP** and then click **Dashboard**.
2. In the **FTP** pane click **User Credentials**, in the **username** box, enter **FTPMod5Lab{Your-Initials}**.
3. In the **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes, enter **Password99!**.
   >**Note:** You will need the credentials for the next steps. Copy them to any code editor.
4. Click **Save Credentials**.
5. In your **Web App** menu, in the **MONITORING** menu, click **App Service logs**.
6. Set the **Application Logging (Filesystem)** option to **On**.
7. Set the level to **Verbose**.
8. Set **Failed request tracing** to **On**, and then in the top menu, click **Save**.
9. On **Web server logging** option, choose **File System** with **Retention Period (Days)** of **21** days and then click **Save**.
10. In your **Web App** menu, scroll up and click **Overview**.
11. Copy the **FTP host name** value to any code editor.
   >**Note**: You will need it in the next exercise.
	
### Exercise 2: Deploying an ASP.NET Core Web API to the Web App

#### Task 1: Deploy an ASP.NET Core project to the web app

1. Open File Explorer and browse to the **[Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod05\LabFiles\Exercise2\Host In Azure\BlueYonder.Flights.Service\Properties\PublishProfiles** folder.
2. Open the **Azure.pubxml** file with any code editor.
3. Replace the **PublishSiteName** with the app service name 'blueyonder-flights-*{YourInitials}*'.
4. Replace the **UserName** and **Password** values with the values that you have copied from the previous exercise (in Task 4, step 3).
5. To save the file, press Ctrl+S.
6. Open a Command Prompt window.
7. To point to your new web app folder, at the command prompt, paste the following command and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   cd "[RepositoryRoot]\Allfiles\Mod05\LabFiles\Exercise2\Host In Azure\BlueYonder.Flights.Service"
   ```
8. To host your web app in the App Service that you have created in Azure, paste the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Azure /p:Configuration=Release
   ```
9. Wait until the publish completes.

#### Task 2: Test and verify the web app uses the database and environment variable

1. Open a **PowerShell** console.
2. To make an HTTP request to your Web App, run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   Invoke-WebRequest https://{Your App Name}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights
   ```
   > **Note**: Replace **{Your App Name}** with your actual app name that you have copied earlier.

   > **Note**: If there any error regarding invoke web request run the following command then try to run the command again:
   **[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12**

3. Check that you are getting the **"X-Tenant-ID"** header with the value of **Testing**.

4. Check that you are getting the expected response such as the following:
   ```json
   [{"flightId":1,"origin":"New York","destination":"Paris","flightNumber":"204837D","departureTime":"2018-10-10T00:00:00","travelers":null},{"flightId":2,"origin":"Paris","destination":"Rome","flightNumber":"204837C","departureTime":"2017-10-10T00:00:00","travelers":null}]
   ```
   >**Note**: If you are not seeing all of the response content, type the following command:
   ```pwsh
   (Invoke-WebRequest https://{Your App Name}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights).Content
   ```

#### Task 3: Use the FTP Deployment server to view the web app and its log files

1. If required, switch back to your **PowerShell** console
2. To make a bad HTTP request to your web app,run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   Invoke-WebRequest https://{Your App Name}.azurewebsites.net
   ```
   >**Note**: Replace **{Your App Name}** with your actual app name that you copied earlier.
3. Open a browser and navigate to the FTP hostname address that you copied from the previous exercise (in Task 4, step 8).
   > **Note**: If you receieve an error in **Edge** browser , you can try another browser.
4. Sign in with the FTP username and password that you copied from the previous exercise (in Task 4, step 3).
   >**Note**: The **Username** in this case should be **blueyonder-flights-**{Your Initials}**\\{Your Username}**.
5. Click the **LogFiles\\** folder.
6. Locate and click the **W3SVC#########** folder.
   >**Note**: Make sure that you select the folder with the latest **Date Modified** value.<br/>
   This folder contains an XSL file and one or more XML files for **Failed Request Traces**.
7. Click the latest .xml file.
   **Note**: This file contains your last failed HTTP request that you performed at the PowerShell command prompt.
8. Review this log file:
   1. In the **Request Summary** section, you can see all the details about the request (URL, Authentication, etc.).
   2. In the **Errors & Warnings** section, you can see the details about the response (ErrorCode, HTTPStatus, etc.).
9.  If required, open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If you are prompted to, sign in by using your Azure account credentials.
10. In the **Portal menu**, click **App Services** and then click your App Service.
11. To view streaming logs, in the **Monitoring** section, click **Log stream** and then select **Web Server logs**.
12. Switch back to your **PowerShell** console.
13. To add a new log entry, run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   Invoke-WebRequest http://blueyonder-flights-{Your Initials}.azurewebsites.net
   ```
14. Switch back to your **browser** to see the log entry.
   >**Note**: The logs update every minute.<br/>
   You can see the status code **404** at the end of the log.
15. To see another log in the **Log Stream**, run the following command in your **PowerShell** console and then switch back to the **browser**.
   ```pwsh
   Invoke-WebRequest http://blueyonder-flights-{Your Initials}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights
   ```
   >**Note**: The difference between these two logs is the URL details and the status code (now it is 200).
16. Close all the open windows.   

# Lab: Host an ASP.NET Core service in Azure Container Instances 

### Exercise 1: Publishing the service to a Docker container

#### Task 1: Create a Dockerfile for the service

1. Open a **Command Prompt** window.
2. To change the directory to the **BlueYonder.Hotels.Service** folder, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise3\Starter\BlueYonder.Hotels.Service\BlueYonder.Hotels.Service
   ```
3. To open the project in Microsoft Visual Studio Code, run the following command: 
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
4. In the **EXPLORER** panel, right-click the **BlueYonder.Hotels.Service** area, select **New File**, and then name it **DockerFile**
5. To download a base docker image for **ASP.NET CORE** and define docker settings for your **BlueYonder.Hotels.Service** project, open the new **DockerFile** and enter the following docker commands:
   ```
   FROM microsoft/dotnet:2.1-aspnetcore-runtime AS base
   WORKDIR /app

   EXPOSE 55419
   EXPOSE 44398

   FROM microsoft/dotnet:2.1-sdk AS build
   WORKDIR /src
   COPY ./BlueYonder.Hotels.Service.csproj ./
   RUN dotnet restore ./BlueYonder.Hotels.Service.csproj
   COPY . .
   WORKDIR /src/.
   RUN dotnet build BlueYonder.Hotels.Service.csproj -c Release -o /app

   FROM build AS publish
   RUN dotnet publish BlueYonder.Hotels.Service.csproj -c Release -o /app

   FROM base AS final
   WORKDIR /app
   COPY --from=publish /app .
   ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "BlueYonder.Hotels.Service.dll"]
   ```
6. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save**.
7. Switch to the **Command Prompt** window.
8. To build your project by using the **DockerFile** that you created, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker build -t hotels_service -f .\DockerFile .
   ```
   >**Note**: This will take 5-15 minutes.<br/>
9.  To run the docker container which is listening on a default port, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it -p 8080:80 hotels_service
   ```
10. Open a browser and navigate to **localhost:8080/api/hotels**.
11. Check that you are getting the expected response such as the following:
   ```json
   [{"id":1,"hotelName":"Leonardo","address":"Jones Street 259, Manhattan","stars":5.0,"isFullyBooked":false},		          {"id":2,"hotelName":"Dan","address":"Bleecker Street 23, Manhattan","stars":3.5,"isFullyBooked":true}]
   ```
12. In the **Command Prompt** window, press **CTRL+C** to terminate the application.

#### Task 2: Publish the application into a local container using Visual Studio

1. Open Microsoft Visual Studio 2017.
2. If prompted, sign-in with a Microsoft Account.
3. On the **File** menu, point to **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.
4. In the **File name** box, enter **[Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise3\Starter\BlueYonder.Hotels.Service\BlueYonder.Hotels.Service.sln**, and then click **Open**.
5. Right-click the BlueYonder.Hotels.Service **PROJECT**, point to **Add**, and then click **Docker Support**.
6. In the **Docker File Options** window, select **Linux** and then click **OK**.
   > **Note**: If a Microsoft Visual studio dialog box appears asking about renaming, click **No**.
7. On the **Build** menu, click **Build Solution**.
8. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging (F5)**.
9. In the **Docker** notification, click **Share It**.

   >**Note**: This may take 5-15 minutes. <br /><br />
   	      A new browser window will be opened for you. <br/>
            If the URL doesn't end with **api/hotels**, change it.<br/>
            Your URL should look like this **localhost:{port}/api/hotels**.

9.  Check whether you are getting the expected response such as the following:
   ```json
	[{"id":1,"hotelName":"Leonardo","address":"Jones Street 259, Manhattan","stars":5.0,"isFullyBooked":false},			{"id":2,"hotelName":"Dan","address":"Bleecker Street 23, Manhattan","stars":3.5,"isFullyBooked":true}]
   ```
   >**Note**: Do not close the browser. Your container should be running for the next steps.

#### Task 3: Push the container to a public container registry

1. Run **Docker Client** on your machine and login using your **Docker Hub** credentials.
2. Open the Command Prompt window.
3. To sign in to Docker Hub by using a command line, at the command prompt, paste the following command:
   ```bash
   docker login
   ```
   >**Note**: Enter your Docker Hub username and password, and then press Enter.

4. To create a tag name for your docker image in Docker Hub, at the command prompt, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   >**Note**: Replace the *{Your Docker Hub Username}* variable with your actual Docker Hub username.
   ```bash
   docker tag hotels_service {Your Docker Hub Username}/hotels_service
   ```
5. To push your container image into Docker Hub, paste the following command, and then press Enter:

   >**Note**: Replace the *{Your Docker Hub Username}* variable with your actual Docker Hub username.
   ```bash
   docker push {Your Docker Hub Username}/hotels_service
   ```
6. Open a browser and navigate to **https://hub.docker.com**, and then sign in with your credentials.
7. On the **Repositories** page, verify that you are seeing the last push as {Your Docker Hub UserName}**/hotels_service**.


### Exercise 2: Hosting the service in Azure Container Instances

#### Task 1: Create a Resource Group for Azure Container Instances

1. Open the Azure command prompt (Azure CLI) window.
2. To sign in to your Azure account, run the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   az login
   ```
3. Write the code that you have got from the command prompt in **https://microsoft.com/devicelogin**, and then click **Continue**.
4. To create a new **Resource Group** called **blueyonder-hotels**, run the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   az group create -l eastus -n blueyonder-hotels
   ```

#### Task 2: Create an Azure Container Instance from the container image

1. To create a new **container** instance using the previously created **Docker container** for the hotel's service, run the following command:
   ```bash
   az container create --resource-group blueyonder-hotels --name hotels-container-{Your Initials} --image {Your Docker Hub Username}/hotels_service --dns-name-label blueyonder-hotels-service-{Your Initials} --ports 80
   ```
   >**Note**: Replace **{Your Initials}** with your actual initials and replace **{Your Docker Hub Username}** with your actual Docker Hub username. <br />The deployment may take 5-10 minutes to complete.

2. To get details of your container instance, run the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   az container list
   ```
3. Inside the **"ipAddress"** object, locate the **"ip"** property and copy its value.
4. Paste the **IP address** in your browser's address bar, add **/api/hotels** to it, and then press Enter.
   >**Note**: Your URL should look like the following:<br/>
            {Container's IP Adress}**/api/hotels**
5. Check that you are getting the expected response just as the following:
   ```json
   [{"id":1,"hotelName":"Leonardo","address":"Jones Street 259, Manhattan","stars":5.0,"isFullyBooked":false},{"id":2,"hotelName":"Dan","address":"Bleecker Street 23, Manhattan","stars":3.5,"isFullyBooked":true}]
   ```
6. Close all the open windows.


# Lab: Implement an Azure Function 

### Exercise 1: Developing the Service Locally

#### Task 1: Create a new Function App project in Visual Studio

1. Open the Command Prompt window.
2. At the command prompt, change the directory by running the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise4
   ```
3. Install the following package:
   ```bash
      npm i -g azure-functions-core-tools@core --unsafe-perm true
   ```
4. To create a local Functions project, run the following command:
   ```bash
      func init BlueYonder.Flights.GroupProxy -n --worker-runtime dotnet
   ```
5. To change the directory to the newly created function project folder, run the following command:
   ```bash
      cd BlueYonder.Flights.GroupProxy
   ```
6. To open the project in Visual Studio Code, run the following command: 
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
   >**Note**: If you are prompted to upgrade Azure functions, close the notification **without** upgrading.<br />
   Do the same for any notifications about projects being created outside of VSCode.
   
7. In the **EXPLORER** panel, right-click the **BlueYonder.Flights.GroupProxy** area, select **New File**, and then name it **Traveler.cs**.
8. In **Traveler.cs**, enter the following code:
   ```cs
   using System;

   namespace BlueYonder.Flights.GroupProxy
   {
      public class Traveler
      {
        public int TravelerId { get; set; }
        public string FirstName { get; set; }
        public string LastName { get; set; }
        public string MobilePhone { get; set; }
        public string Passport { get; set; }
        public string Email { get; set; }
      }
   }
   ```
9. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save**.
10. Switch to your **Command Prompt** window.
11. To create a new Azure function for your new Functions project, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   func new --name BookFlightFunc
   ```
12. In **Select a template**, select **HttpTrigger** by using the cursor keys and then press **Enter**.
13. Switch back to **VScode** in preparation for the next task.

#### Task 2: Implement an HTTP trigger that invokes the flights booking Web App

1. In your new **BookFlightFunc** class, locate the **using** statements, and then after the last **using** which is **Newtonsoft.Json**, press Enter.
2. In the new line after **using Newtonsoft.Json**, add the following **using** statements:
   ```cs
   using System.Net.Http;
   using System.Text;
   using System.Collections.Generic;
   ```
3. Replace all the **Run** method implementation with the following code that makes a request to the **Flights booking** web app, which you have created in Lab 2 of this Module:
   ```cs
   log.LogInformation("C# HTTP trigger function processed a request to the flights booking service.");

   var flightId = req.Query["flightId"];

   var flightServiceUrl = $"http://blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights/bookFlight?flightId={flightId}";

   log.LogInformation($"Flights service url:{flightServiceUrl}");

   var travelers = new List<Traveler>
    {
      new Traveler { Email = "204837Dazure@gmail.com" , FirstName = "Jonathan", LastName = "James", MobilePhone = "+61 0658748", Passport = "204837DCBA" },
      new Traveler { Email = "204837Dfunction@gmail.com", FirstName = "James", LastName = "Barkal", MobilePhone = "+61 0658355", Passport = "204837DCBABC" }
    };

   var travelersAsJson = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(travelers);

   using (var client = new HttpClient())
   {
      client.PostAsync(flightServiceUrl,
                   new StringContent(travelersAsJson,
                                 Encoding.UTF8,
                                 "application/json")).Wait();
   }

   return (ActionResult)new OkObjectResult($"Request to book flight was sent successfully");
   ```
   >**Note**: Replace *{Your Initials}* in the **flightServiceUrl** with your actual initials.
4. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save**.
5. Switch to your **Command Prompt** console in preparation for the next exercise.

#### Task 3: Test the Function App locally in a browser

1. To test the new Azure function locally, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   func host start --build
   ```
2. Open a browser and navigate to **http://localhost:7071/api/BookFlightFunc?flightId=1**.
3. Check whether you are getting the expected response such as the following:
   ```
   Request to book flight was sent successfully
   ```
4. To check whether the travelers were actually booked to flight number 1, open a browser and navigate to **http://blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights**.

   >**Note**: Replace *{Your Initials}* with your actual initials.

5. Check whether you are getting the expected response such as the following:
   ```json
   [{"flightId":1,"origin":"New York","destination":"Paris","flightNumber":"204837D","departureTime":"2018-10-10T00:00:00","travelers":[{"travelerId":1,"firstName":"Jonathan","lastName":"James","mobilePhone":"+61 0658748","passport":"204837DCBA","email":"204837Dazure@gmail.com"},{"travelerId":2,"firstName":"James","lastName":"Barkal","mobilePhone":"+61 0658355","passport":"204837DCBABC","email":"204837Dfunction@gmail.com"}]},{"flightId":2,"origin":"Paris","destination":"Rome","flightNumber":"204837C","departureTime":"2017-10-10T00:00:00","travelers":[]}]
   ```
6. Close all open windows. 

### Exercise 2: Deploying the Service to Azure Functions

#### Task 1: Deploy the service to Azure Functions from Visual Studio

1. Open a browser and navigate to the Azure Portal.
2. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.

   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears asking you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.

3. If the **Windows Azure Tour** dialog box appears, click **X** (the close button).
4. In the portal menu, click **Create a resource**.
5. In the **New** window, select **Compute**, and then select **Function App**.
6. For **Resource Group**, select **BlueYonder.Lab.05**.
7. In the **Function App** blade, in the **App name** box, enter **BlueYonderFlightFunc{YourInitials}**.
   >**Note**: Save the app name in any code editor. You will need it when publishing the new Azure function to Azure.
8. Leave **Publish** as **Code**.
9. For **Runetime stack**, select **.NET Core**.
10. For **Version**, select **3.1**.
11. For **Region**, select a region close to you that you can provision resources into.
12. Click **Review and Create**.
13. Click **Create**. Wait for the Function app deployment to be successful.
14. Open the Command Prompt window.
15. At the command prompt, change the directory by running the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod05\Labfiles\Exercise4\BlueYonder.Flights.GroupProxy
   ```
16. To sign in to Azure with your credentials before publishing the new Azure function to Azure, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   az login
   ```
   
17. To publish your new Azure function into Azure, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   func azure functionapp publish {Your App name} --force
   ```
   >**Note**: Replace **{Your App name}** with your actual app name in Azure that you wrote in previous step.
   
#### Task 2: Test the Function App on Azure in a browser 

1. In your **browser** window with the Azure Portal, click into the **Search box** and enter the name of your function app and then click the name to open it.
2. From your **BlueYonderFlightFuncxx** App Service, click **Functions** and then from the list of functions, click yours.
3. Click **Get Function Url** and then click the **Copy** icon to copy the URL to the clipboard.
4. Open a new tab in the browser and paste the URL copied in the step above.
5. **Before** pressing Enter, append the following to the URL and then press **Enter**.
   ```cs
   &flightId=1
   ```
6. Check whether you are getting the expected response of:
   ```cs
   Request to book flight was sent successfully
   ```
7. To check whether the travelers were actually booked to flight number 1, open a browser and navigate to **http://blueyonder-flights-{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/flights**.

   >**Note**: Replace **{Your Initials}** with your actual initials.

8. Check whether you are getting the expected response such as the following:
   ```json
   [{"flightId":1,"origin":"New York","destination":"Paris","flightNumber":"204837D","departureTime":"2018-10-10T00:00:00","travelers":[{"travelerId":1,"firstName":"Jonathan","lastName":"James","mobilePhone":"+61 0658748","passport":"204837DCBA","email":"204837Dazure@gmail.com"},{"travelerId":2,"firstName":"James","lastName":"Barkal","mobilePhone":"+61 0658355","passport":"204837DCBABC","email":"204837Dfunction@gmail.com"},{"travelerId":3,"firstName":"Jonathan","lastName":"James","mobilePhone":"+61 0658748","passport":"204837DCBA","email":"204837Dazure@gmail.com"},{"travelerId":4,"firstName":"James","lastName":"Barkal","mobilePhone":"+61 0658355","passport":"204837DCBABC","email":"204837Dfunction@gmail.com"}]},{"flightId":2,"origin":"Paris","destination":"Rome","flightNumber":"204837C","departureTime":"2017-10-10T00:00:00","travelers":[]}]
   ```
   >**Note**: You are seeing the same travelers that you had added earlier (locally) but with different **Traveler IDs**.
9. Close all open windows.
   
©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
