# Module 6: Deploying and Managing Services

# Lab 0: Setting up for Lab 3 - Publishing a Web API 

#### These steps must be completed before any others due to the time it takes to provision the API management service. It can take up to 45 minutes to complete and generally takes at least 30 minutes.

### Preparation Steps

1. Start PowerShell as an administrator.
2. In the **User Account Control** modal, click **Yes**.
3. To ensure TLS1.2 is used, enter the following command:
   ```pwsh
   [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
   ```
3. Run the following command:
   ```pwsh
   Install-Module azurerm -AllowClobber -MinimumVersion 5.4.1
   ```
   >**Note**: If prompted to import the NuGet provider, type **Y** and then press **Enter**.
   >**Note**: If prompted to trust this repository, type **A** and then press **Enter**.
4. To change directory run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\Mod06\Labfiles\Exercise3\Setup
   ```
5. Run the following command:
   ```pwsh
    .\createAzureServices.ps1
   ```
   >**Note**: If prompted to trust the script, type **R** and then press **Enter**.
6. In the **Sign in** window that appears, enter your details and then sign in.
7. You will be asked to provide a **Subscription ID**, which you can get by performing the following steps:
   1. Open a browser and navigate to **http://portal.azure.com**. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, and then click **Continue**. Wait for the sign-in page to appear, enter your email address and password, and then click **Sign In**.
   2. In the search box on the top bar, type **Subscriptions** and in the results, click **Subscriptions** listed under **Services**.
   3. Copy the value from **Subscription ID**, and then paste it in the PowerShell window. 
8. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, follow the on-screen instructions. Wait for the deployment to complete successfully.
9.  Write the name of the Microsoft Azure App Service that is created.
10. Close the Administrator: PowerShell window.
11. Open Microsoft Edge.
12. Navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
13. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, click **Next**, enter your password, and then click **Sign In**.
14. If the **Stay signed in?** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.
15. In the portal menu, click **+ Create a resource**.
16. In the **Search** box, type **API management**, and then click the **API management** search result.
17. Click **Create**.
18. In the **Name** box, enter **blueyonder-api***{YourInitials}*.
19. In the **Resource Group** list, select **Mod6Lab3-RG**.
20. In the **Organization name** box, enter **BlueYonder***{YourInitials}*.
21. Click **Create**.

#### Once the deployment has been submitted, you can continue on with the other labs in this Module.

# Lab: Deploying an ASP.NET Core Web Service on Linux

1. Wherever a path to a file starts at *[Repository Root]*, replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides. For example, if you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, change the path: *[Repository Root]***\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01** to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01**.
2. Wherever *{YourInitials}* appears, replace it with your actual initials. For example, the initials for **John Doe** will be **jd**.

### Exercise 1: Publishing the ASP.NET Core Web Service for Linux

#### Task 1: Use a Docker container to build a self-contained ASP.NET Core web service

1. Open the command prompt.
2. To change the directory to the **Starter** folder, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod06\Labfiles\Exercise1\Starter
   ```
3. To open the project in Microsoft Visual Studio Code, run the following command: 
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
4. In the **EXPLORER** panel, right-click the **Starter** area, select **New File**, and then name it **.dockerignore**.
   >**Note**: **.dockerignore** it is for exclude files and directories from the containers
5. Enter the following code into **.dockerignore**:
   ```sh
   .dockerignore
   .env
   .git
   .gitignore
   .vs
   .vscode
   docker-compose.yml
   docker-compose.*.yml
   */bin
   */obj
   ```
6. Right-click **BlueYonder.Flights.Service**, select **New File**, and then name it **Dockerfile**.
7. To get the **dotnet:2.1-sdk** image, enter the following code:
   ```sh
   FROM microsoft/dotnet:2.1-sdk AS build-env
   WORKDIR /app
   ```
8. To copy and restore the project, enter the following code:
   ```sh
   # Copy csproj and restore as distinct layers
   COPY *.csproj ./
   RUN dotnet restore
   ```
9. To build the project, enter the following code:
   ```sh
   # Copy everything else and build
   COPY . ./
   RUN dotnet publish -c Release -o out
   ```
10. To get the **dotnet:2.1-aspnetcore-runtime** image and build it, enter the following code:
   ```sh
   # Build runtime image
   FROM microsoft/dotnet:2.1-aspnetcore-runtime
   WORKDIR /app
   COPY --from=build-env /app/out .
   ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "BlueYonder.Flights.Service.dll"]
   ```
11. In **VScode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.

#### Task 2: Use a Linux Docker container to host the web service

1. Switch to the command prompt.
2. To change the directory to the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, at the command prompt, run the following command: 
   ```bash
   cd BlueYonder.Flights.Service
   ```
3. To build the container and name it **blueYonder**, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker build -t blueyonder .
   ```
4. To run the container on port **1234**, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 1234:80 --name webapp blueyonder
   ```
5. Open Microsoft Edge.
6. Navigate to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://localhost:1234/api/destinations
   ```
7. The **GET** response should return a JSON with all the destinations.

### Exercise 2: Configuring Nginx as a Reverse Proxy

#### Task 1: Use Nginx in a container to reverse proxy the ASP.NET web service

1. Switch to Visual Studio Code.
2. In the **EXPLORER** panel, right-click the **Starter** area, select **New Folder**, and then name it **nginx**.
3. Right-click the **nginx** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **nginx.conf**.
4. In the new file, paste the following code:
   ```sh
   user  nginx;
   worker_processes  1;

   error_log  /var/log/nginx/error.log warn;
   pid      /var/run/nginx.pid;

   events {
      worker_connections  1024;
   }

   http {
     server {
      listen 80 default_server;

      location /test {
        proxy_pass http://host.docker.internal:1234;
        rewrite ^/test(.*)$ $1 break;
      }
     }
   }
   ```
   >**Note**: Check **proxy_pass**. This is the path of the reverse proxy and **test** is what should be added for using **proxy_pass**.
   
5. Right-click the **nginx** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **dockerfile**.
6. To copy the **nginx** image and change the **conf** file, paste the following code:
   ```sh   
   FROM nginx
   
   COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/

   CMD ["nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
   ```
7. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save**.
8. Switch to the command prompt.
9. To change the directory to the **nginx** folder, at the command prompt,  run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd ..\nginx
   ```
10. To build the container and name it **nginxproxy**, run the following command:
   ```bashdocker 
   docker build -t nginxproxy .
   ```
11. To run **nginx** on port **1235**, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 1235:80 --name nginx nginxproxy
   ```
12. Switch to Microsoft Edge.
13. Navigate to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://localhost:1235/test/api/destinations
   ```
14. The **GET** response should return a JSON with all the destinations similar to the response in Exercise 1.
15. Switch to the command prompt.

16. To stop the **webapp** process, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker stop webapp
   ```
17. To stop the **nginx** process, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker stop nginx
   ```

#### Task 2: Create a Docker Compose file for bringing up both containers

1. Switch to Visual Studio Code.
2. Right-click the **nginx** folder, select **New File**, and then name it **docker-compose.yml**.
3. To compose all the services that need to be running, enter the following code:
   ```sh
   version: '3'
   services:
     nginx:
      image: nginxproxy
      ports:
       - "1235:80"
     webapp:
      image: "blueyonder"
   ```
4. In the **nginx** folder, click **nginx.conf**.
5. Locate **proxy_pass** and change the URL to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://webapp:80
   ```
6. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.
7. Switch to the command prompt.
8. To build the container after the change, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker build -t nginxproxy .
   ```
9. To run **docker-compose**, run the following code:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up
   ```
10. Switch to Microsoft Edge.
11. Navigate to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://localhost:1235/test/api/destinations
   ```
12. The **GET** response should return a JSON with all the destinations similar to that in Exercise 1.
12. Switch to the command prompt.
14. Stop all the services in **docker-compose** and press Ctrl + C.
15. Close all open windows.

# Lab: Deploying to Staging and Production

### Exercise 1: Deploying the Application to Production

#### Task 1: Create a standard web app

1. Open Microsoft Edge.
2. Navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
3. If a page appears asking for your email address, enter your email address, click **Next**, enter your password, and then click **Sign In**.
4. If the **Stay signed in?** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
   >**Note**: During the sign-in process, if a page appears prompting you to choose from a list of previously used accounts, select the account that you previously used, and then continue to provide your credentials.
5. On the portal menu, click **App Services**.
6. Click **+ Add**.
7. In **Resource Group**, select **Create new** and type **Mod06Lab2-RG** then click **OK**.
8. In the **Name** box, type **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*.
9. In **Runtime stack**, select **.NET Core 2.1 (LTS)**.
10. In **Region**, select a region you can provision to.
11. Under **App Service Plan**, click **Create new**, enter **mod6lab2sp** and click **OK**.
12. Click **Review + create**, and when validation is complete, click **Create**.
13. Wait until the deployment succeeds.

#### Task 2: Configure environment variables in the production slot

1. To display all the App Services, on portal menu, click **App Services**.
2. Click the **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}* app service.
3. In the **SETTINGS** section, on the left blade menu, click **Configuration**.
4. Click **+ New application setting**.
5. In **Name**, type **BLUEYONDER_TENANT**.
6. In **Value**, type **Production**.
7. Click **OK**.
8. Click **Save** and then click **Continue**.

#### Task 3: Deploy an ASP.NET Core application to the production slot

1. To add credentials to the app service, under the **Deployment** section, click **Deployment Center**, Select **FTP**, click **Dashboard** and then provide the following information:
   - In **FTP** pane click **User Credentials** , in the username box type **FTPMod6Lab2***{YourInitials}*.
   - In the **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes, type **Password99!**.
   - Click **Save Credentials**.

2. Open the command prompt.
3. To change the directory to the starter project, at the command prompt, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\Allfiles\Mod06\Labfiles\Exercise2\Starter
   ```
4. Open the project in Visual Studio Code, paste the following command, and then press Enter:
   ```bash
   code .
   ```
5. Expand the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, expand the **Middleware** folder, and then select the **TenantMiddleware.cs** file.
6. To add the **X-Tenant-ID** header, locate the **Invoke** method and paste the following code above the *await _next(httpContext)*:
   ```cs
   string tenant = _configuration["BLUEYONDER_TENANT"] ?? "Localhost";
   httpContext.Response.Headers.Add("X-Tenant-ID", tenant);
   ```
7. Right-click the **Properties** folder, select **New Folder**, and then name the folder **PublishProfiles**.
8. In **PublishProfiles**, add the file **Azure.pubxml** and double-click it.
9. In the new file, paste the following code:
   ```xml
   <Project>
      <PropertyGroup>
        <PublishProtocol>Kudu</PublishProtocol>
        <PublishSiteName>blueyondermod06lab2{YourInitials}</PublishSiteName>
        <UserName>FTPMod6Lab2{YourInitials}</UserName>
        <Password>Password99!</Password>
      </PropertyGroup>
   </Project>
   ```
10. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.
11. Switch to the **Command Prompt** window.
12. To change the directory to the **BlueYonder.Flights.Service** project, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd BlueYonder.Flights.Service
   ```
13. To **publish** the project to azure, run the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Azure /p:Configuration=Release
   ```

#### Task 4: Run the application and verify its output
pub
1. Open Microsoft Edge. 
2. To open Developer Tools, press **F12**.
3. In **Developer Tools**, navigate to **Network**.
4. Navigate to the following URL:
   ```url
   https://blueyondermod06lab2{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
   ```
5. In the **Network** tab, click the entry for *destinations*.
6. In the **Response Headers** section, locate the **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Production**.

### Exercise 2: Create a staging slot

#### Task 1: Create a staging deployment slot

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, in port portal menu, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the blade menu under **Deployment**, click **Deployment slots**.
5. Click **+ Add Slot**:
6. In the **Name** box, type **Staging**.
7. In the **Clone settings from** list, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*.
8. Click **Add**.
9. Once the slot has been successfully added, click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Configure environment variables in the staging slot

1. In the **Deployment slots** blade, click **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*-**staging**.
2. On the blade menu, under the **Settings** section, click **Configuration**.
3. In the **Application settings** section, locate **BLUEYONDER_TENANT** and click the **Edit** icon.
4. Change **Value** to be **Staging** and click **OK**.
4. Click **Save** and then click **Continue**.

#### Task 3: Deploy a newer version to the staging slot

1. Switch to Visual Studio Code.
2. Expand **Controllers** and double-click **DestinationsController.cs**.
3. To add more destinations, paste the following code in the constructor: 
   ```cs
   _destinations.Add(new Destination { Id = 6, CityName = "Milan", Airport = "Malpensa" });
   _destinations.Add(new Destination { Id = 7, CityName = "Rome", Airport = "Leonardo da Vinci-Fiumicino" });
   ```
4. Expand the **Properties** folder, right-click **PublishProfiles**, select **New File**, and then name it **Staging.pubxml**
5. In the new file, paste the following code:
   ```xml
   <Project>
      <PropertyGroup>
        <PublishProtocol>Kudu</PublishProtocol>
        <PublishSiteName>blueyondermod06lab2{YourInitials}-staging</PublishSiteName>
        <UserName>FTPMod6Lab2{YourInitials}</UserName>
        <Password>Password99!</Password>
      </PropertyGroup>
   </Project>
   ```
6. In **VSCode**, click **File** and then click **Save All**.
7. Switch to the command prompt.
8. To publish in the staging slot, at the command prompt, paste the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish /p:PublishProfile=Staging /p:Configuration=Release
   ```

#### Task 4: Run the application from staging and verify its output

1. Open a new instance of Microsoft Edge. 
2. To open **Developer Tools**, press **F12**.
3. In **Developer Tools**, navigate to **Network**.
4. Navigate to the following URL:
   ```url
   https://blueyondermod06lab2{YourInitials}-staging.azurewebsites.net/api/destinations
   ```
5. View the response with all the destinations including Milan and Rome.
6. In the **Network** tab, Click the entry for *destinations*.
7. In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Staging**.


### Exercise 3: Swapping the Environments

#### Task 1: Perform a swap of the staging and production environments

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, portal menu, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the **Overview** blade, on the top bar, click **Swap**.
5. In **Source**, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*-Staging.
6. In **Target**, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*.
7. Click **Swap**. 
8. Wait until the swap succeeds and then click the **Close** button.

#### Task 2: Run the production application and verify its output

1. Switch to Microsoft Edge with the production URL (Exercise 1, Task 4).
2. To refresh the page, press F5.
3. In the **Network** tab, Click the entry for *destinations*.
4. In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Staging**.
   >**Note**:  The **X-Tenant-ID** value is **Staging**  because the environment variable is not sticky to the slot mode.

#### Task 3: Undo the swap

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, portal menu, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the **Overview** blade, on the top bar, click **Swap**.
5. In **Source**, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*-Staging.
6. In **Target**, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*.
7. Click **Swap**. 
8. Wait until the swap succeeds and then click the **Close** button.
9. Switch to Microsoft Edge with the production URL (Exercise 3, Task 2).
10. To refresh the page, press F5.
11. View the response with all the destinations without Milan and Rome.
12. In the **Network** tab, Click the entry for *destinations*.
13. In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Production**.
   >**Note**:  The **X-Tenant-ID** value is **Production**  because the environment variable is not sticky to the slot mode.


#### Task 4: Configure the application settings as sticky to the slot

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, in the portal menu, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}* app service.
4. On the left blade menu, under the **Settings** section, click **Configuration**.
5. In **Application settings**, locate **BLUEYONDER_TENANT** and click the **Edit** icon.
6. Select the **Deployment slot setting** checkbox and then click **OK**.
6. At the top of the blade, click **Save** and then click **Continue**.

#### Task 5: Redo the swap and re-test the output of the production slot

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. To display all the app services, in the portal menu, click **App Services**.
3. Click the **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}* app service.
4. In the **Overview** blade, on the top bar, click **Swap**.
5. In **Source**, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*-Staging.
6. In **Target**, select **blueyondermod06lab2***{YourInitials}*.
7. Click **Swap**. 
8. Wait until the swap succeeds and then click the **Close** button.
9. Switch to Microsoft Edge with the production URL (Exercise 3, Task 2).
10. To refresh the page, press F5.
11. View the response with all the destinations including Milan and Rome.
12. In the **Network** tab, Click the entry for *destinations*.
13. In the **Response Headers** section, locate **X-Tenant-ID** and verify that the value is **Production**.
14. Close all open windows.

# Lab: Publishing a Web API with Azure API Management

### Preparation Steps

All preparation should have been completed before any labs were started.

### Exercise 1: Create an Azure API Management Instance

#### Task 1: Create an Azure API Management instance in the Azure Portal

These steps should have been completed at the very start of this lab series.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure API product and API manually

1. Switch to Azure Portal.
2. In the portal menu, click **All resources**.
3. Click **blueyonder-api***{YourInitials}*.
4. In the **APIs** section, click **Products**.
5. On the top menu bar, click **+ Add**
6. In the **Display name** box, type **Blueyonder**.
7. In the **Description** box, type **Blueyonder API**.
8. Ensure **Requires subscription** is checked.
9. Click **Create**.
10. In the **APIs** section, click **APIs**.
11. Click **Blank API**.
12. In the **Create a blank API** modal window, click **Full**.
12. In the **Display name** box, type **BlueYonder**.
13. In **Web service URL**, type **https://blueyonder{YourInitials}.azurewebsites.net/api**.
14. In the **Api URL suffix**box, type **api**.
15. In **Products**, select **blueyonder**.
16. Click **Create**.
17. To create the **GET destinations** operation, click **+ Add operation**.
18. In the **Display name** box, type **Destinations**.
19. In **URL**,  select **GET** and type **/destinations**.
20. Click **Save**.
21. To create the **GET destinations by ID** operation, click **+ Add operation**.
22. In the **Display name**, type **Destinations By ID**.
23. In **Name** box, type **destinations-by-id**.
24. In **URL**, select **GET** and type **/destinations/{id}**.
25. Click **Save**.

### Exercise 2: Testing and Managing the API

#### Task 1: Test the API from the Azure API Management portal

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations**.
2. Click the **Test** tab.
3. To test the **GET Destinations** API, click **Send**.
4. Verify that the response is **200** with the list of destinations.
5. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations By ID**.
6. Click the **Test** tab.
7. In the **Template parameters** section, in the **id** parameter, under **VALUE**, type **1**.  
8. To test the **GET Destinations by ID** API, click **Send**.
9. Verify that the response is **200** with the Seattle destination.

#### Task 2: Configure a caching policy for flight availability and weather information APIs

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations**.
2. Click the **Design** tab.
3. In the **Inbound processing** window, click the **+ Add policy**.
4. Select the **Cache responses**, and then enter the following details:
   - In **Duration**, type **60**.
5. Click **Save**.
6. Click the **Test** tab and then click **Destinations**.
7. Click **Send**, and then click the **Trace** tab.
8. Verify that the **Backend** section exists and that the request was handled.
9. Click **Send**, and then click the **Trace** tab.
10. Verify that the **Backend** section does not exist and that the request was returned from the cache.
   >**Note**: The Inbound details contains a *cache-lookup* element that has a *message* key with a value starting *Cache lookup resulted in a hit!*.

#### Task 3: Configure a request rate limit (throttling) for the flight availability API

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations By ID**.
2. Click the **Design** tab.
3. In the **Inbound processing** window, to the right of **base**, click the ellipses(...) and then select **Code editor**.
4. Position the cursor inside the **\<inbound\>** element.
5. Click **Show snippets**, and then under **Access restriction policies**, click **Limit call rate per key**.
6. In the **\<inbound\>** element, modify your **rate-limit-by-key** code to the following code:
   ```xml
   <rate-limit-by-key calls="2" renewal-period="60" counter-key="@(context.Subscription.Id)" />
   ```
7. Click **Save**.

#### Task 4: Test the rate limit

1. In the **BlueYonder** API, click **Destinations By ID**.
2. Click the **Test** tab and then click **Destinations By ID**.
3. In the **Template parameters** section, in the **id** parameter, under **VALUE**, enter **1**.  
4. Press **Send** two times in a row.
5. After sending the request two times, you get a **429 Too many requests** response for any further requests submitted.
6. Wait for 60 seconds and then press **Send** again. This time you should get a **200 OK** response.
7. Close all windows.


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
