# Module 8: Diagnostics and Monitoring

1. Wherever you see a path to file starting at **[Repository Root]**, replace it with the absolute path to the directory in which the 20487 repository resides.
   e.g. - you cloned or extracted the 20487 repository to **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487**, then the following path: *[Repository Root]***\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01** will become **C:\Users\John Doe\Downloads\20487\AllFiles\20487D\Mod01**.
2. Wherever you see **{YourInitials}**, replace it with your actual initials. For example, the initials for **John Doe** will be **jd**).

# Lab: Monitoring ASP.NET Core with ETW and LTTng

### Exercise 1: Collect and view ETW events

#### Task 1: Run the ASP.NET Core application

1. Open the command prompt.
2. To change directory to **Blueyonder.Service** project, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod08\Labfiles\Lab1\Blueyonder.Service
   ```
3. To ensure the development certificate is trusted, run the following command and click **Yes**:
   ```bash
   dotnet dev-certs https --trust
   ```
3. To run the service, run the following command:
   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

#### Task 2: Record .NET ETW events in PerfView

1. Open PerfView.
2. In the top menu bar, click **Collect** and then click on **Collect** again.
3. Click **Start Collection**.

#### Task 3: Run a script to invoke service and make it to throw exceptions

1. Open Powershell.
2. To change directory to the **Assets** folder, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod08\Labfiles\Lab1\Assets
   ```
3. To ensure TLS1.2 is used, enter the following command:
   ```pwsh
   [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
   ```
4.  To run the script that invokes the service 10 times, run the following command:
   ```bash
   .\requestsToServer
   ```
5. Close the command prompt.
6. Switch to **PerfView**.
7. Click **Stop Collection**, and then wait for the app to load the data.

#### Task 4: View exception details and call stacks in PerfView

1. Double-click **PerfViewData.etl.zip**.
2. Expand the **Advanced Group** folder, and then double-click **Exceptions Stacks**.
3. In the **Select Process window**, locate the following process:
   - In the **Name** column, find **dotnet**.
   - In the **CommandLine** column, find **dotnet exec** *[Repository Root]***\AllFiles\Mod08\Labfiles\Lab1\Blueyonder.Service**.
   - Double-click the process.
4. In the **Exception Stacks** window, click the **By Name** tab.
5. In the **Name** column, double-click **Throw(System.Exception) Id** *{number}* **can't be hash to flight code**.
6. View the exception call stack, find the line with the text **Blueyonder.Service.Controllers.FlightsControllers.Get(int32)**
7. This is the service that throw the exception.
8. On the top bar, in the **GroupPats** list, select **[no grouping]**.
9. Expand **Blueyonder.Service.Repository.FlightsRepository.HashFlightCode(int32)**.
10. View the exception call stack to see which method in the service throws the exception.
   > **Note**: The **HashFlightCode** method throws an exception and continues to **GetFlightCode**.

### Exercise 2: Collect and view LTTng events

#### Task 1: Run the ASP.NET Core application in a Linux container with COMPlus_EventLogEnabled=1

1. Open the command prompt.
2. To change directory to the **Blueyonder.Service** project, run the following command:
   ```bash
   cd [Repository Root]\AllFiles\Mod08\Labfiles\Lab1\Blueyonder.Service
   ```
3. To build the docker image, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker build -t monitor .
   ```
4. To run the new container with the monitor image, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 8080:80 --name myapp monitor
   ```

#### Task 2: Record LTTng events with the Lttng CLI tool

1. To enter the shell in the container, run the following command:
   ```
   docker exec -it myapp bash
   ```
2. To update packages in the container, run the following command:
   ```bash
   apt update
   ```
3. To install **software-properties-common**, run the following command and press **y** when prompted:
   ```bash
   apt-get install software-properties-common
   ```
5. To update the list of packages, run the following command:
   ```bash
   apt-get update
   ```
6. To install the main **LTTng** packages, run the following command and press **y** when prompted:
   ```bash
   apt-get install lttng-tools lttng-modules-dkms liblttng-ust-dev
   ```
7. To create a new **LTTng** session, run the following command:
   ```bash
   lttng create sample-trace
   ```
8. To add context data (process id, thread id, process name) to each event, run the following commands:
   ```bash
   lttng add-context --userspace --type vpid
   lttng add-context --userspace --type vtid
   lttng add-context --userspace --type procname
   ```
9. To create an event rule to record all the events starting with **DotNETRuntime**, run the following command:
   ```bash
   lttng enable-event --userspace --tracepoint DotNETRuntime:*
   ```
10. To start recording events, run the following command:
   ```bash
   lttng start
   ```
11. Open the browser and navigate to the following URL:
   ```url
   http://localhost:8080/api/flights/{id}
   ```
   > **Note**: Replace *{id}* with an int number.
12. Refresh the page a few times.


#### Task 3: View LTTng exception and GC events with the babeltrace CLI tool

1. To stop the recording, run the following command:
   ```bash
   lttng stop
   ```
2. To destroy the session, run the following command:
   ```bash
   lttng destroy
   ```
3. To see all the recorded events, enter the following command, press the Tab key, and then press the Enter key.
   ```bash
   babeltrace /root/lttng-traces/sample-trace
   ```
   >**Note**: Pressing the tab key will autocomplete the filename.
4. Explore all the events and look for the exception and GC events.

#### Task 4: Open the recording file on Windows with PerfView

1. To install **Zip** package, run the following command and press **y** when prompted:
   ```bash
   apt-get install zip
   ```
2. To archive the trace folder, paste the following command, press the Tab key, and then press the Enter key:
   ```bash
   zip -r sample.trace.zip /root/lttng-traces/sample-trace
   ```
   >**Note**: Pressing the tab key will autocomplete the filename.
3. To exit bash, run the following command:
   ```bash
   exit
   ```
4. To copy the archive to the local file system, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker cp myapp:app/sample.trace.zip .
   ```
5.  To kill the running container, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker kill myapp
   ```
6. To remove the container, run the following command:
   ```bash
   docker rm myapp
   ```
7. Open the zip file in **PerfView** and look at the events.
8. Close all windows.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided &quot;as-is.&quot; Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
